## What do you think being a data scientist is about?

Being a data scientist is about making data interetable and useful! Data scientists use data to gain new understandings of phenomena, inform decisions, and guide improvements in people's lives and our environment.

## What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?

The major duties of a data scientist are data manipulation, analysis, and presentation. Data sciencetist know how to clean, process, and analyze many types and sizes of data sets. Data scientists have knowledge in database languages such as SQL, as well as in programming languages such as R and Python. Data scientists also typically have an understanding of statistics and machine learning.

## What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians? How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?

A key similarity betweem statisticians and data scientists is they are both occupied with solving problems using data. Statisticians are often responsbible for anlyzing structured data from designed experiments and surveys. Whereas, data scientists are often responsible for analyzing large, unstructured data sets. Both statisticians and data scientists are proficient in the application of statistical techniques for data analysis. A unique role to statisticians may also be consulting on the desgin of data collection procedures.

I beleive a strong mathematical background and deep understanding of statistical theory is valuable in any role required to anlyze data, and is my motivation for seeking an advanced degree in statistics. However, I view the acquisition of data science skills as a way to advance the "practical application" of my skills as a statistician. Andvanced knowledge of data science will allow me to deal with real-world (sometimes messy) data, manage my work flow efficiently, and become a better programmer.

